
Data have become a torrent flowing into every area of the global economy.1 Companies churn out a 
burgeoning volume of transactional data, capturing trillions of bytes of information about their 
customers, suppliers, and operations. millions of networked sensors are being embedded in the 
physical world in devices such as mobile phones, smart energy meters, automobiles, and industrial 
machines that sense, create, and communicate data in the age of the Internet of Things.2 Indeed, as 
companies and organizations go about their business and interact with individuals, they are 
generating a tremendous amount of digital “exhaust data,” i.e., data that
are created as a by-product of other activities. Social media sites, smartphones, and other 
consumer devices including PCs and laptops have allowed billions of individuals around the world to 
contribute to the amount of big data available. And the growing volume of multimedia content has 
played a major role in the exponential
growth in the amount of big data (see Box 1, “What do we mean by ‘big data’?”). Each second of 
high-definition video, for example, generates more than 2,000 times as many bytes as required to 
store a single page of text. In a digitized world, consumers going about their day—communicating, 
browsing, buying, sharing, searching—
create their own enormous trails of data.
In itself, the sheer volume of data is a global phenomenon—but what does it mean? Many citizens 
around the world regard this collection of information with deep suspicion, seeing the data flood 
as nothing more than an intrusion of their privacy. But there is strong evidence that big data can 
play a significant economic role to the benefit not only of private commerce but also of national 
economies and their citizens. Our research finds that data can create significant value for the 
world economy, enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of companies and the

public sector and creating substantial economic surplus for consumers. For instance, if US health 
care could use big data creatively and effectively to drive efficiency and quality, we estimate 
that the potential value from data in the sector could be more  than $300 billion in value every 
year, two-thirds of which would be in the form of reducing national health care expenditures by 
about 8 percent. In the private sector, we estimate, for example, that a retailer using big data to 
the full has the potential to increase its operating margin by more than 60 percent. In the 
developed economies of Europe, we estimate that government administration could save more than
€100 billion ($149 billion) in operational efficiency improvements alone by using big data. This 
estimate does not include big data levers that could reduce fraud, errors, and tax gaps (i.e., the 
gap between potential and actual tax revenue).

Digital data is now everywhere—in every sector, in every economy, in every organization and user of 
digital technology. While this topic might once have concerned only a few data geeks, big data is 
now relevant for leaders across every sector, and consumers of products and services stand to 
benefit from its application. The ability to store, aggregate, and combine data and then use the 
results to perform deep analyses has become ever more accessible as trends such as Moore’s Law
in computing, its equivalent in digital storage, and cloud computing continue to lower costs and 
other technology barriers.3 For less than $600, an individual can purchase a disk drive with the 
capacity to store all of the world’s music.4 The means to extract insight from data are also 
markedly improving as software available to apply increasingly sophisticated techniques combines 
with growing computing horsepower. Further, the ability to generate, communicate, share, and access 
data has been revolutionized by the increasing number of people, devices, and sensors that are now 
connected by digital networks. In 2010, more than 4 billion people,
or 60 percent of the world’s population, were using mobile phones, and about 12 percent of those 
people had smartphones, whose penetration is growing at
more than 20 percent a year. More than 30 million networked sensor nodes are now present in the 
transportation, automotive, industrial, utilities, and retail sectors. The number of these sensors 
is increasing at a rate of more than 30 percent a year.

There are many ways that big data can be used to create value across sectors of the global economy. 
Indeed, our research suggests that we are on the cusp of a tremendous wave of innovation, 
productivity, and growth, as well as new modes of
competition and value capture—all driven by big data as consumers, companies, and economic sectors 
exploit its potential. But why should this be the case now? Haven’t data always been part of the 
impact of information and communication technology?
Yes, but our research suggests that the scale and scope of changes that big data are bringing about 
are at an inflection point, set to expand greatly, as a series of
technology trends accelerate and converge. We are already seeing visible changes in the economic 
landscape as a result of this convergence.

Many pioneering companies are already using big data to create value, and others need to explore 
how they can do the same if they are to compete. Governments,
too, have a significant opportunity to boost their efficiency and the value for money
they offer citizens at a time when public finances are constrained—and are likely to remain so due 
to aging populations in many countries around the world. Our research suggests that the public 
sector can boost its productivity significantly through the effective use of big data.

However, companies and other organizations and policy makers need to address considerable 
challenges if they are to capture the full potential of big data. A shortage of the analytical and 
managerial talent necessary to make the most of big data is
a significant and pressing challenge and one that companies and policy makers can begin to address 
in the near term. The United States alone faces a shortage of
140,000 to 190,000 people with deep analytical skills as well as 1.5 million managers and analysts 
to analyze big data and make decisions based on their findings. The shortage of talent is just the 
beginning. Other challenges we explore in this report include the need to ensure that the right 
infrastructure is in place and that incentives and competition are in place to encourage continued 
innovation; that the economic benefits to users, organizations, and the economy are properly 
understood; and that safeguards are in place to address public concerns about big data.

This report seeks to understand the state of digital data, how different domains can use large 
datasets to create value, the potential value across stakeholders, and the implications for the 
leaders of private sector companies and public sector
organizations, as well as for policy makers. We have supplemented our analysis of big data as a 
whole with a detailed examination of five domains (health care in the United States, the public 
sector in Europe, retail in the United States, and manufacturing and personal location data 
globally). This research by no means represents the final word on big data; instead, we see it as a 
beginning. We fully anticipate that this is a story that will continue to evolve as technologies 
and techniques using big data develop and data, their uses, and their economic benefits grow 
(alongside associated
challenges and risks). For now, however, our research yields seven key insights:
